Dual-Degree Ph.D. in Language and Information Technologies (Portugal Partnership)
After completing the majority of their academic requirements, students return to Portugal for the next two years to conduct extensive research, ultimately leading to a dissertation topic that will be publicly defended. One adviser from each institution co-supervises their student’s progress and helps to define their final thesis topic.

Overview
The LTI offers a dual-degree Ph.D. in Language and Information Technologies in cooperation with:

Universidade de Aveiro (Ph.D. in Computer Engineering), Universidade do Minho (Ph.D. in Informatics)  and the Universidade do Porto (FCUP, Ph.D. in Computer Science and FEUP, Ph.D. in Computer Science) as part of MAPi;
Universidade de Lisboa, Faculdade de Ciências – FCUL (Ph.D. in Informatics) 
Universidade de Lisboa, Instituto Superior Técnico – IST  (Ph.D. in Computer Science and Engineering, Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering, Ph.D. in Information Security)
Universidade Nova de Lisboa, Faculdade de Ciências e Tecnologia – FCTUNL (Ph.D. in Computer Science)
Universidade de Coimbra, Faculdade de Ciências e Tecnologia – FCTUC (Ph.D. in Information Science and Technology)
Students jointly enrolled in the LTI Ph.D program spend a year in Portugal, then two years at Carnegie Mellon taking classes in linguistics, computer science, statistical learning and task orientation.

After completing the majority of their academic requirements, students return to Portugal for the next two years to conduct extensive research, ultimately leading to a dissertation topic that will be publicly defended. One adviser from each institution co-supervises their student’s progress and helps to define their final thesis topic.

Requirements
Students participating in the dual-degree program will spend their first year in Portugal, followed by two years in Pittsburgh to complete their coursework. They will complete a maximum of eight courses with a proper balance of focus areas (linguistics, computer science, statistical/learning and task orientation). After that, they will return to Portugal for their last two years, pursuing research and completing their dissertation. For more, see the Carnegie Mellon | Portugal page.

Curriculum
While in the dual Ph.D. program, your schedule may look like this.
Year 1(In Portugal) Fall: Classes and Directed Study
Year 1(In Portugal) Spring: Classes and Directed Study
Year 1(In Portugal) Summer: Required Research
Year 2(In Pittsburgh) Fall: Grammar and Lexicon, Structured Prediction, Directed Study
Year 2(In Pittsburgh) Spring:Language and Statistics, 2 Self-Paced Labs, Directed Study
Year 2(In Pittsburgh) Summer: Required Research
Year 3(In Pittsburgh) Fall: Directed Research
Year 3(In Pittsburgh) Spring: Directed Research
Year 3(In Pittsburgh) Summer: Required Research
Year 4(In Pittsburgh) Fall:Directed Research
Year 4(In Pittsburgh) Spring:Directed Research
Year 4(In Pittsburgh) Summer: Required Research
Year 5(In Pittsburgh) Fall:Directed Research
Year 5(In Pittsburgh) Spring:Directed Research
Year 5(In Pittsburgh) Summer: Required Research

Admissions
Students applying to the dual degree program must apply through Carnegie Mellon's online application. In addition to the requirements listed below, prospective students must also contact Stacey Young when applying.

Carnegie Mellon's School of Computer Science has a centralized online application process. Applications and all supporting documentation for fall admission to any of the LTI's graduate programs must be received by the application deadline. Incomplete applications will not be considered. The application period for Fall 2024 is now closed. Information about the Fall 2025 application cycle will be available in the summer of 2024.

Application Deadlines: TBA

Cost: TBA

Fee Waivers

Fee waivers may be available in cases of financial hardship, or for participants in select programs. For more information, please refer to the School of Computer Science Fee Waiver page.

Requirements
The School of Computer Science requires the following for all Ph.D. applications. (Please note, these requirements may change for future application cycles.)
GRE scores: These must be less than five years old. The GRE Subject Test is not required, but is recommended. Our Institution Code is 2074; Department Code is 0402.
TOEFL scores: Required if English is not your native language. No exceptions. These scores may be more than two years old if you have pursued or are pursuing a bachelor's or graduate degree in the United States. (While the TOEFL is preferred, the IELTS test may also be submitted.) Successful applicants will have a minimum TOEFL score of 100. Our Institution Code is 4256; the Department Code is 78.
Official transcripts from each university you have attended, regardless of whether you received your degree there.
Current resume.
Statement of Purpose.
Three letters of recommendation.
For more details on these requirements, please see the SCS Doctoral Admissions page.

In addition to the SCS guidelines, the LTI requires:

A short (1-3 minute) video of yourself. Tell us about you and why you want to come to CMU. This is not a required part of the application process, but it's strongly suggested.
Any outside funding you are receiving must be accompanied by an official award letter.
No incomplete applications will be eligible for consideration.

For specific application/admissions questions, please contact Stacey Young.

Program Contact
For more information about the Ph.D. program, contact Stacey Young.
Stacey Young
Academic Program Manager, PhD
Office: 6415 Gates & Hillman Centers
Email: staceyy@cs.cmu.edu
Phone: 412-268-2623